
##  In this repository are:

  - the CCBH-2022 in csv format (CCBH-2022.csv),
  - the python code to generate the input file for the ASSA-PBN software (GRN_to_ASSA.py),
  - the python code to compute conserved genes in last n time steps (find_basin.py),
  - the text containing detailed instructions and command lines (commands.txt).
  - Normalized RNA-seq data, generated by Felicita Mabel (norm.zip);
  - Binarized gene data from the core subnetwork (genes-bin.zip);
  - Simulation trajectory results and attraction basins (sim.zip). For enhanced folder navigation, it is important to read the README file contained within it.

Algorithms designed by Marcelo Trindade dos Santos (LNCC/MCTI), member of the Computational Modeling of Multidrug-resistant Bacteria research group (Fiocruz).


##  **Information about the RNA-seq _bulk_ experiments:**
 
For Antibiotic Growth Curves:
  - _Pseudomonas aeruginosa_ was incubated for 10 hours (growth curve) in Mueller-Hinton medium. After this period, antimicrobials were added:

  - Imipenem = 128 mg/l
  - Polymyxin B = 1 mg/ml
  - Control (without addition of antibiotic)
  - The cultures were further incubated for 1 hour, and then 1 ml was collected from each tube to perform RNA extraction (500 μl from each tube + 2 volumes of RNA protect).

  - For biofilm studies, the same inoculum used for the growth curves was used to inoculate a 12-well plate. After 24 hours of incubation at 37°C, the planktonic cells were transferred to tubes for OD600 reading.
  - The biofilm adhered to the plate was suspended in 3 ml of PBS (same volume as used at the beginning of the experiment). OD600 reading was also performed on this suspension.

  - 1 ml of the biofilm suspension was collected for RNA extraction. RNAs were extracted using the RNeasy Minikit from Qiagen.

  - For experiments with different carbon sources, M9 medium was used, and sugars were added at 40 mM concentration. Pseudomonas was inoculated, and a growth curve was generated. As they reached mid-log phase, aliquots were withdrawn for RNA extraction.

  - The planktonic samples were grown in tubes (16x100mm) containing 3 ml of Mueller Hinton II medium (same medium used for biofilm and other tests). The tubes were incubated at 37°C with agitation (150 rpm). After 11 hours of incubation, they reached a OD600 of C9 = 0.75 and C10 = 0.78. 500 μl were collected from each tube for RNA extraction.

  - For the biofilms, a 12-well plate was used. 3 ml of medium was added to each well. The plate was incubated for 24 hours at 37°C without agitation to allow biofilm formation. After incubation, suspended cells were discarded, and the wells were washed with PBS to remove non-adherent cells. Then, the biofilm was disrupted (3 ml of PBS was added, and cells were loosened using a pipette). The volume from each well was transferred to a sterile glass tube for OD600 reading. C11 = 1.27 and C12 = 1.14. 500 μl were collected from each well for RNA extraction. The biofilm is three-dimensional, but this is only observable under microscopy.

  - To the collected aliquots for RNA extraction, RNAprotect (to protect RNA from degradation) was added, and extraction was performed using the Qiagen Rneasy Minikit.
